i was awakened this morning by strange noises coming from a pathway adjacent to the one on which i had slept. i saw a group of monkey-like people heading in my direction. they had not seen me yet. i did not feel threatened by their presence. their response to me was one that i would have never expected. after staring at me for a short time, they fell to their knees and began what appeared to be some sort of ceremonial worship. i tried to speak to them, but they did not understand my language. instead, they indicated through enthusiastic hand motions that i was to follow them.

as we walked, i began to notice that the waters below us were changing colors. slowly, subtly, they would change from deep blue to muddy orange. then from muddy orange to beautifully clear. i was so intrigued by the water i hardly noticed that we had arrived at a ladder.

climbing the ladder led us to their village which is about ten meters above the water and can only be reached by rope ladders that stretch from the lower paths to the village level approximately half way up the grand trees. it is very interesting watching these people carry out their daily tasks. even after watching them for hours, i did not understand exactly what they were doing.

at sunset they motioned for me to follow them. i followed the creatures to the doorway of an enormous hut. strangely, once inside, i found that the hut appeared even larger than it had from the outside. the walls were garnished with bright metals and in the center of the hut sat the leader of these people.

at least he appeared to be their leader for he sat a meter off the floor in a thick throne. guards surrounded the strong creature who was dressed in many exotic, colorful fabrics.

next to the leader sat a very old human, at least to some extent he appears human. his hair, which was only on his face and head, was completely gray, almost white, and hung very long around his frail body. his thin head hung limply by an almost grotesque neck that could not hold its head up to look at me. but what a surprise, this creature could speak my language. shortly thereafter i was given a bed with some hand motions that looked to be telling me to go to sleep. i look forward to learning more.
