as i suspected, the ancient creature is a human. but he is old beyond his own reckoning, and seems almost insane. however, the tree-dwellers almost revere him as a god. they are treating me now in the same fashion, which makes me feel very uncomfortable.

it is almost impossible to understand this old man. his voice is feeble but wild. he has adopted much of the language of the tree-dwellers. he himself told me he had not spoken our own tongue in ages.

he attempted to explain to me the history of this place. the following is my best "translation" of what he has told me:

many years ago the humans and tree-dwellers lived together in this place, which was then a vast island. they interacted very little: the humans dwelt on the ground and the tree-dwellers lived high above the humans.

occasionally the island was disturbed by mysterious rumblings which happened randomly (some sort of tectonic or volcanic action, i suspect.) the sometimes slight, sometimes heavy, tremors would only last a short time. then they would stop, allowing everything to return to normal.

one day things changed. the rumbling began and grew quickly to unprecedented levels. soon it became apparent that the entire island was sinking slowly into the ocean around them. many of the humans died that day, but not before sacrificing themselves in order to stop the sinking of the island. the humans who lived through this catastrophe moved into the trees where they gradually died out, maybe because they were unequipped for such an environment, but i am not sure.

this is the story the old man communicated to me, although many details are very unclear in my mind. i am especially confused as to how the humans saved the island from completely sinking. in fact i doubt the accuracy of that part of the story: the island must have stopped on its own. yet, the old man believes in the truth of the story as if he had been there. and the tree-dwellers worship him, and apparently all humans, as if he they were heroes or gods.

the old man ended our conversation today with an event which i will never forget. he began gripping my hands tightly, murmuring something about "rest" and "asleep". he then said, "we had expected you to come sooner." these actions filled me with a sort of immediate dread. with much effort, he stood to his feet. i tried to help but he pushed me away with more force than i imagined his frail body contained. the tree-dwellers quietly surrounded him with very solemn faces. they then kneeled before him. he walked to each and placed his hand on their heads. all the while, he murmured words which i did not understand. finally, he turned to me and smiled. then he closed his eyes, and walked out the door and off the narrow path high in the trees. the tree-dwellers were silent. they began a procession down the nearest rope ladder. as i was descending i saw several of them pick up the body (he had fallen onto a lower level of walkway) and carry it away. he was lain down at the dead-end of a short pier-like structure. with the use of some potion one of the tree creatures lit the pier on fire and i watched as the flames engulfed him.

as this strange "funeral" proceeded, the waters around the pier changed to dull green.
